Welcome back up to this point we learned to Dr. CLID comments that his command line interface there
are pretty simple right.
We had docker built and we gave it a tag to call our container something and then we did docker run
and we ran our container.
And because we used the I-T dash I-T parameter were able to go inside of that container and do all we
want with it.
For example if we had our project files from smart brain API I could have just done A.P.M. start there.
If I had all those files.
So again Doc built is used to build an image from the docker file that we created and then docker run
again as the name suggests.
Run the container and again each time it container's run Dharker assigns a new image hash.
As we saw and we can confirm that we're actually running whatever we've whatever image reviews that
we want to use something like node version or any of the commands that you might have.
You can install Ubuntu for example and you can run Ubuntu commands like APT will list or app Dasch get
to install things to make sure that your container actually is working as it's supposed to be.
Now here's the thing with our container the way we have it we can't really do much can we we just have
our node version and we can go into it and run commands from it.
But that's it.
It's pretty minimal right now.
But like I said we can extend this and actually have our entire server running within this container.
And as you saw because we're setting the environment here the node version we just give this container
to anybody and anybody that has this dock or file will always make sure that the server runs the exact
same way because everybody's using the same daquiri image now running the For go back to our terminal
if we run
our command every time.
Well you might not want to actually go into the container.
Be nice to be able to run it in the background.
And the way we do this is we just give it another parameter which is Dashti.
And here we have.
There you go.
Our container running in the background but we didn't go inside of it.
Make sure we give that back.
Luckily we didn't save it.
Now we can run another command called Dr. p.s. and if we do that look at that and then you make this
a little bit bigger.
We can see all the containers that are currently running see our container I.D. our image names.
See when it was created the status and also the commands that it's running.
Very very cool.
And you can have multiple multiple containers here and you can just check them out with Dr. p.s..
All right.
But now we have a problem.
We have a container running in the background.
How do we stop this or how can we go into it.
Luckily once again we have a nother docker command that we can use which is dock or exec and by using
the container idea or hash that we see over here we can reference this darker container because that's
how daquiri can distinguish different containers.
And by the way the alignments are a little bit off.
But you see that this is container ID.
And now in here I just do once again the I-T command.
So think of it as getting us to go into the container.
And then finally we give it the hash which we copied and then finally say that we want to access the
back.
There you go.
We're back into the container and these commands I know they're hard to remember.
You don't need to really remember them.
You can always find them online or you can we watch this video whenever you need to use them.
Now to stop this container now as you can imagine there's another command and it's pretty self-explanatory
all we need to do is say stop.
So let's accept this first.
I'm going to just exit and then say Dr. P.S. We see that we have the container.
Now all I need to do is say doctor stop and give it the hash of the container ID.
All right.
It looks like it worked if I do.
Dr. P.S. We have nothing running now.
Congratulations.
You just learnt most of the tools you need to create containers and run containers and stop them.
You can create as many containers as you want.
Well as much as your your host the machine allows you to do.
And now you've just become a container master.
Well Ali starting to we have a few more things to cover in the next video.
I'll see on that one.
Bob.